Ques. 1 What are the main features of OOPs in java?

Ans: •	Inheritance
     •	Encapsulation
     •	Polymorphism
     •	Data Abstraction


Ques. 2 What is Inheritance in Java?

Ans: The technique of creating a new class by using an existing class functionality is called inheritance in Java. In other words, inheritance is a process where a child class acquires all the properties and behaviors of the parent class.


Ques. 3 Why do we need to use inheritance?

Ans: Inheritance is one of the main pillars of OOPs concept. Some objects share certain properties and behaviors. By using inheritance, a child class acquires all properties and behaviors of parent class.


Ques. 4 What are the reasons to use inheritance in java ?

Ans: 	We can reuse the code from the base class.
     	Using inheritance, we can increase features of class or method by overriding.
     	Inheritance is used to use the existing features of class.
     	It is used to achieve runtime polymorphism i.e method overriding.


Ques. 4 What is Is-A relationship in Java?

Ans: Is-A relationship represents Inheritance. It is implemented using the “extends” keyword. It is used for code reusability.


Ques. 5 What is super class and subclass?

Ans: A class from where a subclass inherits features is called superclass. It is also called base class or parent class.
A class that inherits all the members (fields, method, and nested classes) from other class is called subclass. It is also called a derived class, child class, or extended class.


Ques. 6 How is Inheritance implemented/achieved in Java?

Ans: Inheritance can be implemented or achieved by using two keywords:
     1.	extends: extends is a keyword that is used for developing the inheritance between two classes and two interfaces.
     2.	implements: implements keyword is used for developing the inheritance between a class and interface.


Ques. 7 Write the syntax for creating the subclass of a class?

Ans: A subclass can be created by using the “extends” keyword. The syntax for declaring a subclass of class is as follows:

class subclassName extends superclassName
{
  // Variables of subclass
  // Methods of subclass
}

where class and extends are two keywords.


Ques. 8 Which class in Java is superclass of every other class?

Ans: In Java, Object class is the superclass of every other class.


Ques. 9 How will you prove that the features of Superclass are inherited in Subclass?

Ans: Refer to this tutorial: Inheritance in Java with Realtime Example


Ques. 10 Can a class extend itself?

Ans: No, a class cannot extend itself.

