Ques.1. What is an operating system?

Ans> The operating system is a software program that facilitates computer hardware to communicate and operate with the computer software. It is the most important part of a computer system without it computer is just like a box.


Ques.2. What is the main purpose of an operating system?

Ans> There are two main purposes of an operating system:
 *It is designed to make sure that a computer system performs well by managing its computational activities.
 *It provides an environment for the development and execution of programs.


Ques.3. What are the different operating systems?

Ans> Batched operating systems
     Distributed operating systems
     Timesharing operating systems
     Multi-programmed operating systems
     Real-time operating systems


Ques.4. What is a socket?

Ans> A socket is used to make connection between two applications. Endpoints of the connection are called socket.
Play Video


Ques.5. What is a real-time system?

Ans> Real-time system is used in the case when rigid-time requirements have been placed on the operation of a processor. It contains a well defined and fixed time constraints.


Ques.6. What is kernel?

Ans> Kernel is the core and most important part of a computer operating system which provides basic services for all parts of the OS.


Ques.7. What is monolithic kernel?

Ans> A monolithic kernel is a kernel which includes all operating system code is in single executable image.


Ques.8. What do you mean by a process?

Ans> An executing program is known as process. There are two types of processes:
     Operating System Processes
     User Processes


Ques.9. What are the different states of a process?

Ans> A list of different states of process:
     New Process
     Running Process
     Waiting Process
     Ready Process
     Terminated Process


Ques.10. What is the difference between micro kernel and macro kernel?

Ans> Micro kernel: micro kernel is the kernel which runs minimal performance affecting services for operating system. In micro kernel operating system all other operations are performed by processor.

     Macro Kernel: Macro Kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel.
