Ques.1.  What is the basic function of paging?

Ans> Paging is a method or technique which is used for non-contiguous memory allocation. It is a fixed-size partitioning theme (scheme). In paging, both main memory and secondary memory are divided into equal fixed-size partitions. The partitions of the secondary memory area unit and the main memory area unit are known as pages and frames respectively.
Paging is a memory management method accustomed fetch processes from the secondary memory into the main memory in the form of pages. in paging, each process is split into parts wherever the size of every part is the same as the page size. The size of the last half could also be but the page size. The pages of the process area unit hold on within the frames of main memory relying upon their accessibility


Ques.2. How does swapping result in better memory management?

Ans> Swapping is a simple memory/process management technique used by the operating system(os) to increase the utilization of the processor by moving some blocked processes from the main memory to the secondary memory thus forming a queue of the temporarily suspended processes and the execution continues with the newly arrived process. During regular intervals that are set by the operating system, processes can be copied from the main memory to a backing store, and then copied back later. Swapping allows more processes to be run that can fit into memory at one time


Ques.3.  Write a name of classic synchronization problems?

Ans> Bounded-buffer
     Readers-writers
     Dining philosophers
     Sleeping barber


Ques.4.  What is the Direct Access Method?

Ans> The direct Access method is based on a disk model of a file, such that it is viewed as a numbered sequence of blocks or records. It allows arbitrary blocks to be read or written. Direct access is advantageous when accessing large amounts of information. Direct memory access (DMA) is a method that allows an input/output (I/O) device to send or receive data directly to or from the main memory, bypassing the CPU to speed up memory operations. The process is managed by a chip known as a DMA controller (DMAC).


Ques.5. When does thrashing occur?

Ans> Thrashing occurs when processes on the system frequently access pages not available memory.


Ques.6. What is the best page size when designing an operating system?

Ans> The best paging size varies from system to system, so there is no single best when it comes to page size. There are different factors to consider in order to come up with a suitable page size, such as page table, paging time, and its effect on the overall efficiency of the operating system.


Ques.7.  What is multitasking?

Ans> Multitasking is a logical extension of a multiprogramming system that supports multiple programs to run concurrently. In multitasking, more than one task is executed at the same time. In this technique, the multiple tasks, also known as processes, share common processing resources such as a CPU.


Ques.8.  What is caching?

Ans> The cache is a smaller and faster memory that stores copies of the data from frequently used main memory locations. There are various different independent caches in a CPU, which store instructions and data. Cache memory is used to reduce the average time to access data from the Main memory. 


Ques.9. What is spooling?

Ans> Spooling refers to simultaneous peripheral operations online, spooling refers to putting jobs in a buffer, a special area in memory, or on a disk where a device can access them when it is ready. Spooling is useful because devices access data at different rates.

Ques.10.  What is the functionality of an Assembler?

Ans> The Assembler is used to translate the program written in Assembly language into machine code. The source program is an input of an assembler that contains assembly language instructions. The output generated by the assembler is the object code or machine code understandable by the computer.
